In this video we're going to
talk about onboard storage.
We touched lightly on onboard
storage in the previous video.
In this video we'll go into more details
on possible types of onboard storage,
and storage we actually selected
to put into the DragonBoard 410.
So there are numerous storage
technologies for storing programs,
videos, data, word files,
whatever you would like to store.
The most common storage
technologies are eMMC,
which is an embedded multimedia card.
And that's the one that's
on the DragonBoard.
There's universal flash storage,
which is a newer technology than eMMC.
There is solid state drives,
in which you have probably got
a solid state drive in your laptop.
We have the classic magnetic spinning
hard drives which have their advantages,
and SD cards.
So a little more detail,
I'll start from the bottom up.
Secure Digital cards are very small.
They take a very little space and
they're easily removable from the system.
But the performance of transfer to and
from the card is not very good.
Magnetic drives, the spinning hard drives,
don't have great performance.
But they have incredibly large capacities,
much larger than any of the other storage
media that we're talking about here.
The solid state drives
can be very fast and
have reasonably large capacities,
not as large as the magnetic.
But they use a lot of power,
that's how they achieve their speed.
The universal flash storage has
very high transfer speeds between
the flash storage itself and the SoC but
it's a very new technology and
very expensive because it's new.
And finally there's the embedded
multimedia card which we selected for
the DragonBoard.
eMMC is significantly faster
than SD card because it has
an 8-bit wide interface instead
of a 4-bit wide interface.
So that gives you double the speed,
even at the same clock rates.
But it's also capable of much higher
clock rates than the SD card.
Because eMMC is soldered
directly to the board,
the signals can travel
across the board much faster
than they can travel across
the connector that connects an SD card.
So this gives eMMC a huge boost
in performance over SD card.
This is the reason we chose eMMC for
the DragonBoard.
The other advantage to the eMMC
is because it's embedded
we were able to get a version that
had the DRAM in the same package.
Because the two memories are in
one package this made the board
significantly smaller and less expensive.
So all good reasons for
why you would want to use eMMC.
But what if the amount of eMMC we put on
the board isn't enough for your program?.
Well, you can always add a solid state
drive by plugging it into the USB port.
You can add a magnetic spinning drive
by plugging it into the USB port.
And we have an SD card slot
available right on the board so
that you can expand the storage
to achieve any amount of
storage you need to build things like
file severs, multimedia servers.
So, for instance,
a spinning hard drive would be a very good
choice if you want to store
all of your videos, and
then use the DragonBoard to play them back
as part of your home multimedia system.
As usual, we have more resources
at the Qualcomm Developer Network.
And invite you to browse through
the Qualcomm Developer Network and
take a look at some of the projects that
have actually used external storage,
have built home media servers, and
many other interesting projects.